Write you guys let's go ahead and let's move on to our third frame.
We're almost done creating the walk's cycle.
So we're going to switch back over to our first frame and what we need to do first is we need to delete
this flattened version of our character.
So we're just going to hit delete to get rid of that.
Next we're going to do is we need to scroll down to the body layer.
Now what we need to happen here is we need these legs to switch side.
We will do that is first we're going to start off with our front leg which is on its own layer.
So all we have to do is grab it and move that over into position like so this edge of the leg should
be lining up with this side of his body.
Next we're going to come over to our body layer where other leg is then using the Lasso tool.
We're going to go ahead and cut that out.
Like so then using the grab move tool we can just grab that leg and move it over
making sure they're about level.
And what we want to do is we want to also make sure that this edge of this leg is lining up with this
edge of that body.
So this should become one line and this should become one line.
I know it looks kind of jagged to you right now but we'll fix that in a sec.
Go ahead and unselect out of this selection.
Next we're going to do is we are going to go in there and we're going to race out some of this area
that we don't want and what we'll do is we're going to select this color of skin tone and using the
brush tool.
We'll just go ahead and brush in the shape that we want.
Like so now if you don't want to brush it in if that's too hard.
You can go ahead and use the Lasso tool to trace out the shape that you want to paint in.
Great.
Next story we're going to do is we're going to use the selection tool to select this leg
like so then we're going to cut it out of this layer.
Now the way you cut it out is by getting control X or command x.
If you're on a Mac and now that has just taken that leg away.
But what it's done is it's holding it for us on the clipboard and we can paste it back in.
The reason why we did that is because we need to pasted in above our loincloth.
So we'll open up our loincloth layer and we're going to paste it above all the other layers in there.
So control V or command V.
If you're on a Mac and that will put that leg back in there then we want to try to get it back into
position as best as possible like so.
And as you can see there is some stuff underneath that loincloth that we couldn't see.
So we need to fix that.
So we're going to use the erase tool to erase away till we get the shape we want.
And switching back over to our brush tool will fill in the areas that are empty.
Now let's once again select our drawstring layer and we're going to cut out a section of that drawstring
that's being covered up by the leg.
Then we can go ahead and copy that.
Then coming up to our top layer which is the legel layer we can taste that in on top then we'll move
it and make sure it's in position.
Awesome.
Next what we're going to do is we're going to move our loincloth out of the way a bit.
As of now it looks kind of like it's going through his thigh.
But what we'll do is we're going to come down to our loincloth layer and also selecting the clipping
mask that's attached to it.
We're going to merge those two layers together.
Now those are one layer.
Next what we're going to do is we are going to use the Transform Tool then right clicking on our image
we're going to come up to where it says work.
Now what we can do with this is we can completely warp our image by clicking and dragging certain areas
of the image.
So if we click and drag here in the center we can start to warp that image.
You can click in this corner and warp it over like so.
So that way it's not cutting into his legs so much great.
Let's go ahead and hit enter now that just created kind of a weird looking area right here on the drawstring.
Let's just switch back over to the drawstring layer then let's select that same color.
Then using our brush tool we can just go ahead and repaint in that little area.
Ah.
Our leg layer is still overlapping over our drawstring.
So all we have to do is come over to our leg layer and using the erase tool we'll just erase that away
like so.
Great.
Now let's go ahead and move on to this back leg because it needs a little bit of work so we can go ahead
and close or loin cloth layer then let's come over to our back leg layer and using our erase tool.
We're going to go ahead and erase away the area that we don't want.
Just like so then respecting our skin tone we're going to go ahead and brush in any empty spaces.
Great now because this back leg is behind this other front leg.
We want to make sure that it's a darker tone.
So it looks like it's in shadow.
So what we'll do is we're going to create a new layer above it then we're going to make that layer a
clipping mask.
Now that it's a clipping mask we can go ahead and select this darker skin tone and fill this whole layer
in with our fill tool and that will change the color of that back leg.
Next what we need to do is we need to animate our arms.
So what we're going to do is we're going to start off with our back arm which is this guy right here.
And we're also going to select that spear folder and then using the transform tool.
We're going to go ahead and rotate those.
And on the third frame his arm is going to come up pretty high.
So somewhere about there should be good we can go ahead and hit enter.
Next we need to change the position of this arm.
So we're going to come back to the body later and using our Lasso tool we can go ahead and cut that
arm out.
Just like so then using the Transform Tool will also rotate this arm
and get it into position.
Then we'll use the brush tool to fill in any empty spaces.
So let's select our skin tone and we'll go ahead and we'll just brush that in real quickly.
Great.
We just finished our third Fring.
So let's go ahead and let's make a copy of our character so we'll start with a spear folder and we'll
slide everything all the way up to the mask folder.
Then we'll copy it.
And we'll merge those layers together.
And keeping our flattened copy selected and coming all the way down to the background layer holding
down control to make sure we select both of them.
So now they're both selected.
Now we can just click and drag those into our spreadsheet.
We'll drop those in then.
Let's just position that into place.
Great.
Now let's go ahead and delete that background then then let's open our walking folder back up and let's
drag our new layer in there.
And we're going to label that EF 3 4 frame 3 awesome.
Now let's go ahead and go back into the frame we just created and we need to save this out as frame
3.
So we'll go file save as and we'll call it EF 3.
Great now for this simple walk cycle.
Those are all the frames we need to create.
But coming back into our spreadsheet what we need to do is we need to copy this frame right here where
his legs are crossing and paste a new one down here at the end so that way when the animation goes through
it'll hit all of these.
And then once it hits this guy again down at the concert all the way back over at the beginning.
So what we need to do is we need to come back into our second frame layer and we still should have both
our background and our flat and character selected.
So just click and drag those into our sprite sheet and drop them in reposition it.
And now we can go ahead and delete that background layer and let's label this new frame as frame for
just completed our walk cycle and the next lecture we're going to create a mock up in Photoshop where
you'll be able to actually see your character walking in action.
I hope this lecture was useful for you and I can't wait to see you in the next one.